README.md, before:

# Dependencies

For Zsh, tmux and NeoVim, run

```bash
yay -S direnv eza fd fzf neovim tinyxxd tmux-plugin-manager wget sshfs unzip ydotool zinit zip zoxide
```

for the rest of the packages, TODO!

# Installation

To clean install (override) the configurations follow these steps.

1. Clone this repository's desired branch:

    ```bash
    git clone -b <branch> https://github.com/angelodibella/dotfiles ~/Dotfiles
    cd ~/Dotfiles
    ```

2. For each folder inside `Dotfiles/` inspect the directory structure:

    ```bash
    tree -da <folder>
    ```

    now make the directory structure, making sure to delete previous objects in the path:

    ```bash
    rm -rf /path/to/config/
    mkdir -p /directory/structure/
    ```

3. Finally, stow each component in `Dotfiles/`:
 
    ```bash
    stow <component>
    ```

# Further Steps

Follow these steps to make sure everything works as expected.

**Note:** These are not exhaustive! However, they are the trickiest steps I've found.

## ydotool

Run the following:

```sh
systemctl --user enable --now ydotool.service
sudo usermod -aG input "$USER"
```

## Power Configuration

For computers with batteries (e.g., laptops), edit `/etc/systemd/logind.conf` such that the following lines are uncommented and have the following exact parameters:

```ini
[Login]
SleepOperation=suspend-then-hibernate suspend hibernate
HandlePowerKey=suspend-then-hibernate
HandlePowerKeyLongPress=poweroff
HandleLidSwitch=suspend-then-hibernate
IdleAction=ignore
```

then, similarly for `/etc/systemd/sleep.conf` with

```ini
[Sleep]
AllowSuspendThenHibernate=yes
AllowHybridSleep=no
HibernateDelaySec=2h
HibernateOnACPower=yes
```

After these modifications, run

```bash
sudo systemctl restart systemd-logind.service
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
```

and, for safety, reboot.

### Verification

It is strongly recommended to verify the behavior of this power configuration. First, do some qualitative tests:
    1. Execute `sudo systemctl sleep` from a terminal. The system should suspend. Resume it before the 2-hour `HibernateDelaySec elapses`. It should resume quickly from RAM.
    2. Execute `sudo systemctl sleep` again. This time, allow the system to remain in suspend for more than 2 hours. Upon resuming after the delay, the system should resume from hibernation. This process is typically slower than resuming from suspend and may involve different visual cues during startup.
Check the same with closing the laptop lid. Between each step, also check logs from `systemd-logind` and relevant sleep services via

```bash
journalctl -u systemd-logind.service -e
```

```bash
journalctl -u systemd-suspend-then-hibernate.service -e
```

```bash
journalctl -b  # Review logs since the last boot for messages around sleep/resume events.
```

wherever applicable. Look for messages indicating which sleep state was entered (e.g., "Starting Suspend...", "Suspending system...", "Waking up to hibernate...", "Starting Hibernate..."), any errors encountered during the process, and confirmation of resume events. During `suspend-then-hibernate`, scripts executed by `systemd-sleep` (located in `/usr/lib/systemd/system-sleep/`) receive an environment variable `SYSTEMD_SLEEP_ACTION` which will be set to "suspend" during the initial suspend phase and "hibernate" during the subsequent hibernation phase. Log entries from such scripts, if any are present, could also provide clues.

## Catppuccin Icons and Cursors

Install the (deprecated) GTK 3/4 Catppuccin themes with `yay -S catppuccin-gtk-theme-mocha`. Next, install the papirus icon theme via

```bash
yay -S papirus-icon-theme
```

and make it Catppuccin-themed by installing

```bash
yay -S papirus-folders-catppuccin-git
```

and running

```bash
papirus-folders -C cat-mocha-flamingo --theme Papirus-Dark
```
For the cursors, run

```bash
yay -S catppuccin-cursors-mocha
```

Now, using `nwg-look`, select the desired configurations. Install this `yay -S nwg-look`.

## Rclone `systemd` Mount

We assume mounting Google Drive and OneDrive to the `/mnt` directory. To do this, first install rclone via

```bash
yay -S rclone
```

then run, separately,

```bash
rclone lsd gdrive:
```

```bash
rclone lsd onedrive:
```

If the output is positive, continue. Otherwise, the configuration needs fixing.

Start by creating the mountpoints on `/mnt`:

```bash
cd /mnt
sudo mkdir gdrive onedrive
sudo chown angelo gdrive
sudo chown angelo onedrive
```

Then, create and edit `/etc/systemd/user/rclone@.service` to include the following:

```ini
[Unit]
Description=RClone mount of users remote %i using filesystem permissions
Documentation=http://rclone.org/docs/
After=network-online.target


[Service]
Type=notify
#Set up environment
Environment=REMOTE_NAME="%i"
Environment=REMOTE_PATH="/"
Environment=MOUNT_DIR="/mnt/%i"
Environment=POST_MOUNT_SCRIPT=""
Environment=RCLONE_CONF="%h/.config/rclone/rclone.conf"
Environment=RCLONE_TEMP_DIR="/tmp/rclone/%u/%i"
Environment=RCLONE_RC_ON="false"

#Default arguments for rclone mount. Can be overridden in the environment file
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_ATTR_TIMEOUT="1s"
#TODO: figure out default for the following parameter
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_DAEMON_TIMEOUT="UNKNOWN_DEFAULT"
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_DIR_CACHE_TIME="60m"
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_DIR_PERMS="0777"
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_FILE_PERMS="0666"
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_GID="%G"
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_MAX_READ_AHEAD="128k"
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_POLL_INTERVAL="1m0s"
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_UID="%U"
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_UMASK="022"
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_VFS_CACHE_MAX_AGE="1h0m0s"
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_VFS_CACHE_MAX_SIZE="off"
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_VFS_CACHE_MODE="off"
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_VFS_CACHE_POLL_INTERVAL="1m0s"
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_VFS_READ_CHUNK_SIZE="128M"
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_VFS_READ_CHUNK_SIZE_LIMIT="off"
#TODO: figure out default for the following parameter
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_VOLNAME="UNKNOWN_DEFAULT"

#Overwrite default environment settings with settings from the file if present
EnvironmentFile=-%h/.config/rclone/%i.env

#Check that rclone is installed
ExecStartPre=/usr/bin/test -x /usr/bin/rclone

#Check the mount directory
ExecStartPre=/usr/bin/test -d "${MOUNT_DIR}"
ExecStartPre=/usr/bin/test -w "${MOUNT_DIR}"
#TODO: Add test for MOUNT_DIR being empty -> ExecStartPre=/usr/bin/test -z "$(ls -A "${MOUNT_DIR}")"

#Check the rclone configuration file
ExecStartPre=/usr/bin/test -f "${RCLONE_CONF}"
ExecStartPre=/usr/bin/test -r "${RCLONE_CONF}"
#TODO: add test that the remote is configured for the rclone configuration

#Mount rclone fs
ExecStart=/usr/bin/rclone mount \
            --config="${RCLONE_CONF}" \
#See additional items for access control below for information about the following 2 flags
#            --allow-other \
#            --default-permissions \
            --rc="${RCLONE_RC_ON}" \
            --cache-tmp-upload-path="${RCLONE_TEMP_DIR}/upload" \
            --cache-chunk-path="${RCLONE_TEMP_DIR}/chunks" \
            --cache-workers=8 \
            --cache-writes \
            --cache-dir="${RCLONE_TEMP_DIR}/vfs" \
            --cache-db-path="${RCLONE_TEMP_DIR}/db" \
            --no-modtime \
            --drive-use-trash \
            --stats=0 \
            --checkers=16 \
            --bwlimit=40M \
            --cache-info-age=60m \
            --attr-timeout="${RCLONE_MOUNT_ATTR_TIMEOUT}" \
#TODO: Include this once a proper default value is determined
#           --daemon-timeout="${RCLONE_MOUNT_DAEMON_TIMEOUT}" \
            --dir-cache-time="${RCLONE_MOUNT_DIR_CACHE_TIME}" \
            --dir-perms="${RCLONE_MOUNT_DIR_PERMS}" \
            --file-perms="${RCLONE_MOUNT_FILE_PERMS}" \
            --gid="${RCLONE_MOUNT_GID}" \
            --max-read-ahead="${RCLONE_MOUNT_MAX_READ_AHEAD}" \
            --poll-interval="${RCLONE_MOUNT_POLL_INTERVAL}" \
            --uid="${RCLONE_MOUNT_UID}" \
            --umask="${RCLONE_MOUNT_UMASK}" \
            --vfs-cache-max-age="${RCLONE_MOUNT_VFS_CACHE_MAX_AGE}" \
            --vfs-cache-max-size="${RCLONE_MOUNT_VFS_CACHE_MAX_SIZE}" \
            --vfs-cache-mode="${RCLONE_MOUNT_VFS_CACHE_MODE}" \
            --vfs-cache-poll-interval="${RCLONE_MOUNT_VFS_CACHE_POLL_INTERVAL}" \
            --vfs-read-chunk-size="${RCLONE_MOUNT_VFS_READ_CHUNK_SIZE}" \
            --vfs-read-chunk-size-limit="${RCLONE_MOUNT_VFS_READ_CHUNK_SIZE_LIMIT}" \
#TODO: Include this once a proper default value is determined
#            --volname="${RCLONE_MOUNT_VOLNAME}"
            "${REMOTE_NAME}:${REMOTE_PATH}" "${MOUNT_DIR}"

#Execute Post Mount Script if specified
ExecStartPost=/bin/sh -c "${POST_MOUNT_SCRIPT}"

#Unmount rclone fs
ExecStop=/bin/fusermount3 -u "${MOUNT_DIR}"

#Restart info
Restart=always
RestartSec=10

[Install]
WantedBy=default.target
```

Then run `systemctl --user daemon-reload` to load this unit. Next, activate the services:

```bash
systemctl --user start rclone@gdrive
systemctl --user start rclone@onedrive
```

Check if these are loaded correctly in `/mnt`, then enable them:

```bash
systemctl --user enable rclone@gdrive
systemctl --user enable rclone@onedrive
```

More information available at https://github.com/rclone/rclone/wiki/Systemd-rclone-mount/.

### Mount Symlinks

What I like to do is create symlinks of these drives to my home directory. This can by done by running

```bash
cd ~
ln -s /mnt/gdrive Google\ Drive
ln -s /mnt/onedrive OneDrive
```

and for some of the folders too (ensure they are deleted first):

```bash
cd ~
ln -s /mnt/onedrive/Desktop Desktop
ln -s /mnt/onedrive/Documents Documents
ln -s /mnt/onedrive/Picture Picture
ln -s /mnt/onedrive/Music Music
```

## Automatic Timezone Switch

Create a drop-in file `/etc/NetworkManager/dispatcher.d/09-timezone` and make it executable. Edit it to contain the following:

```bash
#!/bin/sh
case "$2" in
    up)
        timedatectl set-timezone "$(curl --fail https://ipapi.co/timezone)"
    ;;
esac
```

## Bat

Run `bat cache --build` to load themes.

## keyd

Install `keyd` with `sudo pacman -S keyd`. Edit `/etc/keyd/default.conf` to contain the following:

```ini
[ids]
*

[main]
102nd = backslash
backslash = 102nd

[shift]
2 = S-apostrophe
apostrophe = S-2
```

then run `sudo systemctl enable keyd --now` and `sudo systemctl restart keyd`.

## Rust

Run `yay -S rustup` and configure. For NeoVim to have a working Rust LSP, ensure `rust-analyzer` is installed:

```bash
rustup component add rust-analyzer
```

# Extra QoL Changes

Zen/Firefox places a cookie file in `$HOME` every time a video is played in the browser. Add

```ini
cookie-file = /tmp/.pulse-cookie
```

to `/etc/pulse/client.conf`.

---

Commit message:

[hyprland] Add security note about ydotool

README.md, after:

# Dependencies

For Zsh, tmux and NeoVim, run

```bash
yay -S direnv eza fd fzf neovim tinyxxd tmux-plugin-manager wget sshfs unzip ydotool zinit zip zoxide
```

for the rest of the packages, TODO!

# Installation

To clean install (override) the configurations follow these steps.

1. Clone this repository's desired branch:

    ```bash
    git clone -b <branch> https://github.com/angelodibella/dotfiles ~/Dotfiles
    cd ~/Dotfiles
    ```

2. For each folder inside `Dotfiles/` inspect the directory structure:

    ```bash
    tree -da <folder>
    ```

    now make the directory structure, making sure to delete previous objects in the path:

    ```bash
    rm -rf /path/to/config/
    mkdir -p /directory/structure/
    ```

3. Finally, stow each component in `Dotfiles/`:
 
    ```bash
    stow <component>
    ```

# Further Steps

Follow these steps to make sure everything works as expected.

**Note:** These are not exhaustive! However, they are the trickiest steps I've found.

## ydotool

Run the following:

```sh
systemctl --user enable --now ydotool.service
sudo usermod -aG input "$USER"
```

Security note: being in the input group can grant broad access to input devices (keylogging risk). If this is a laptop you don’t fully trust other local users on, consider the “uaccess” approach instead of input group—but the above is the common simple route.

## Power Configuration

For computers with batteries (e.g., laptops), edit `/etc/systemd/logind.conf` such that the following lines are uncommented and have the following exact parameters:

```ini
[Login]
SleepOperation=suspend-then-hibernate suspend hibernate
HandlePowerKey=suspend-then-hibernate
HandlePowerKeyLongPress=poweroff
HandleLidSwitch=suspend-then-hibernate
IdleAction=ignore
```

then, similarly for `/etc/systemd/sleep.conf` with

```ini
[Sleep]
AllowSuspendThenHibernate=yes
AllowHybridSleep=no
HibernateDelaySec=2h
HibernateOnACPower=yes
```

After these modifications, run

```bash
sudo systemctl restart systemd-logind.service
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
```

and, for safety, reboot.

### Verification

It is strongly recommended to verify the behavior of this power configuration. First, do some qualitative tests:
    1. Execute `sudo systemctl sleep` from a terminal. The system should suspend. Resume it before the 2-hour `HibernateDelaySec elapses`. It should resume quickly from RAM.
    2. Execute `sudo systemctl sleep` again. This time, allow the system to remain in suspend for more than 2 hours. Upon resuming after the delay, the system should resume from hibernation. This process is typically slower than resuming from suspend and may involve different visual cues during startup.
Check the same with closing the laptop lid. Between each step, also check logs from `systemd-logind` and relevant sleep services via

```bash
journalctl -u systemd-logind.service -e
```

```bash
journalctl -u systemd-suspend-then-hibernate.service -e
```

```bash
journalctl -b  # Review logs since the last boot for messages around sleep/resume events.
```

wherever applicable. Look for messages indicating which sleep state was entered (e.g., "Starting Suspend...", "Suspending system...", "Waking up to hibernate...", "Starting Hibernate..."), any errors encountered during the process, and confirmation of resume events. During `suspend-then-hibernate`, scripts executed by `systemd-sleep` (located in `/usr/lib/systemd/system-sleep/`) receive an environment variable `SYSTEMD_SLEEP_ACTION` which will be set to "suspend" during the initial suspend phase and "hibernate" during the subsequent hibernation phase. Log entries from such scripts, if any are present, could also provide clues.

## Catppuccin Icons and Cursors

Install the (deprecated) GTK 3/4 Catppuccin themes with `yay -S catppuccin-gtk-theme-mocha`. Next, install the papirus icon theme via

```bash
yay -S papirus-icon-theme
```

and make it Catppuccin-themed by installing

```bash
yay -S papirus-folders-catppuccin-git
```

and running

```bash
papirus-folders -C cat-mocha-flamingo --theme Papirus-Dark
```
For the cursors, run

```bash
yay -S catppuccin-cursors-mocha
```

Now, using `nwg-look`, select the desired configurations. Install this `yay -S nwg-look`.

## Rclone `systemd` Mount

We assume mounting Google Drive and OneDrive to the `/mnt` directory. To do this, first install rclone via

```bash
yay -S rclone
```

then run, separately,

```bash
rclone lsd gdrive:
```

```bash
rclone lsd onedrive:
```

If the output is positive, continue. Otherwise, the configuration needs fixing.

Start by creating the mountpoints on `/mnt`:

```bash
cd /mnt
sudo mkdir gdrive onedrive
sudo chown angelo gdrive
sudo chown angelo onedrive
```

Then, create and edit `/etc/systemd/user/rclone@.service` to include the following:

```ini
[Unit]
Description=RClone mount of users remote %i using filesystem permissions
Documentation=http://rclone.org/docs/
After=network-online.target


[Service]
Type=notify
#Set up environment
Environment=REMOTE_NAME="%i"
Environment=REMOTE_PATH="/"
Environment=MOUNT_DIR="/mnt/%i"
Environment=POST_MOUNT_SCRIPT=""
Environment=RCLONE_CONF="%h/.config/rclone/rclone.conf"
Environment=RCLONE_TEMP_DIR="/tmp/rclone/%u/%i"
Environment=RCLONE_RC_ON="false"

#Default arguments for rclone mount. Can be overridden in the environment file
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_ATTR_TIMEOUT="1s"
#TODO: figure out default for the following parameter
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_DAEMON_TIMEOUT="UNKNOWN_DEFAULT"
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_DIR_CACHE_TIME="60m"
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_DIR_PERMS="0777"
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_FILE_PERMS="0666"
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_GID="%G"
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_MAX_READ_AHEAD="128k"
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_POLL_INTERVAL="1m0s"
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_UID="%U"
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_UMASK="022"
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_VFS_CACHE_MAX_AGE="1h0m0s"
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_VFS_CACHE_MAX_SIZE="off"
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_VFS_CACHE_MODE="off"
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_VFS_CACHE_POLL_INTERVAL="1m0s"
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_VFS_READ_CHUNK_SIZE="128M"
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_VFS_READ_CHUNK_SIZE_LIMIT="off"
#TODO: figure out default for the following parameter
Environment=RCLONE_MOUNT_VOLNAME="UNKNOWN_DEFAULT"

#Overwrite default environment settings with settings from the file if present
EnvironmentFile=-%h/.config/rclone/%i.env

#Check that rclone is installed
ExecStartPre=/usr/bin/test -x /usr/bin/rclone

#Check the mount directory
ExecStartPre=/usr/bin/test -d "${MOUNT_DIR}"
ExecStartPre=/usr/bin/test -w "${MOUNT_DIR}"
#TODO: Add test for MOUNT_DIR being empty -> ExecStartPre=/usr/bin/test -z "$(ls -A "${MOUNT_DIR}")"

#Check the rclone configuration file
ExecStartPre=/usr/bin/test -f "${RCLONE_CONF}"
ExecStartPre=/usr/bin/test -r "${RCLONE_CONF}"
#TODO: add test that the remote is configured for the rclone configuration

#Mount rclone fs
ExecStart=/usr/bin/rclone mount \
            --config="${RCLONE_CONF}" \
#See additional items for access control below for information about the following 2 flags
#            --allow-other \
#            --default-permissions \
            --rc="${RCLONE_RC_ON}" \
            --cache-tmp-upload-path="${RCLONE_TEMP_DIR}/upload" \
            --cache-chunk-path="${RCLONE_TEMP_DIR}/chunks" \
            --cache-workers=8 \
            --cache-writes \
            --cache-dir="${RCLONE_TEMP_DIR}/vfs" \
            --cache-db-path="${RCLONE_TEMP_DIR}/db" \
            --no-modtime \
            --drive-use-trash \
            --stats=0 \
            --checkers=16 \
            --bwlimit=40M \
            --cache-info-age=60m \
            --attr-timeout="${RCLONE_MOUNT_ATTR_TIMEOUT}" \
#TODO: Include this once a proper default value is determined
#           --daemon-timeout="${RCLONE_MOUNT_DAEMON_TIMEOUT}" \
            --dir-cache-time="${RCLONE_MOUNT_DIR_CACHE_TIME}" \
            --dir-perms="${RCLONE_MOUNT_DIR_PERMS}" \
            --file-perms="${RCLONE_MOUNT_FILE_PERMS}" \
            --gid="${RCLONE_MOUNT_GID}" \
            --max-read-ahead="${RCLONE_MOUNT_MAX_READ_AHEAD}" \
            --poll-interval="${RCLONE_MOUNT_POLL_INTERVAL}" \
            --uid="${RCLONE_MOUNT_UID}" \
            --umask="${RCLONE_MOUNT_UMASK}" \
            --vfs-cache-max-age="${RCLONE_MOUNT_VFS_CACHE_MAX_AGE}" \
            --vfs-cache-max-size="${RCLONE_MOUNT_VFS_CACHE_MAX_SIZE}" \
            --vfs-cache-mode="${RCLONE_MOUNT_VFS_CACHE_MODE}" \
            --vfs-cache-poll-interval="${RCLONE_MOUNT_VFS_CACHE_POLL_INTERVAL}" \
            --vfs-read-chunk-size="${RCLONE_MOUNT_VFS_READ_CHUNK_SIZE}" \
            --vfs-read-chunk-size-limit="${RCLONE_MOUNT_VFS_READ_CHUNK_SIZE_LIMIT}" \
#TODO: Include this once a proper default value is determined
#            --volname="${RCLONE_MOUNT_VOLNAME}"
            "${REMOTE_NAME}:${REMOTE_PATH}" "${MOUNT_DIR}"

#Execute Post Mount Script if specified
ExecStartPost=/bin/sh -c "${POST_MOUNT_SCRIPT}"

#Unmount rclone fs
ExecStop=/bin/fusermount3 -u "${MOUNT_DIR}"

#Restart info
Restart=always
RestartSec=10

[Install]
WantedBy=default.target
```

Then run `systemctl --user daemon-reload` to load this unit. Next, activate the services:

```bash
systemctl --user start rclone@gdrive
systemctl --user start rclone@onedrive
```

Check if these are loaded correctly in `/mnt`, then enable them:

```bash
systemctl --user enable rclone@gdrive
systemctl --user enable rclone@onedrive
```

More information available at https://github.com/rclone/rclone/wiki/Systemd-rclone-mount/.

### Mount Symlinks

What I like to do is create symlinks of these drives to my home directory. This can by done by running

```bash
cd ~
ln -s /mnt/gdrive Google\ Drive
ln -s /mnt/onedrive OneDrive
```

and for some of the folders too (ensure they are deleted first):

```bash
cd ~
ln -s /mnt/onedrive/Desktop Desktop
ln -s /mnt/onedrive/Documents Documents
ln -s /mnt/onedrive/Picture Picture
ln -s /mnt/onedrive/Music Music
```

## Automatic Timezone Switch

Create a drop-in file `/etc/NetworkManager/dispatcher.d/09-timezone` and make it executable. Edit it to contain the following:

```bash
#!/bin/sh
case "$2" in
    up)
        timedatectl set-timezone "$(curl --fail https://ipapi.co/timezone)"
    ;;
esac
```

## Bat

Run `bat cache --build` to load themes.

## keyd

Install `keyd` with `sudo pacman -S keyd`. Edit `/etc/keyd/default.conf` to contain the following:

```ini
[ids]
*

[main]
102nd = backslash
backslash = 102nd

[shift]
2 = S-apostrophe
apostrophe = S-2
```

then run `sudo systemctl enable keyd --now` and `sudo systemctl restart keyd`.

## Rust

Run `yay -S rustup` and configure. For NeoVim to have a working Rust LSP, ensure `rust-analyzer` is installed:

```bash
rustup component add rust-analyzer
```

# Extra QoL Changes

Zen/Firefox places a cookie file in `$HOME` every time a video is played in the browser. Add

```ini
cookie-file = /tmp/.pulse-cookie
```

to `/etc/pulse/client.conf`.

---
